---
title: Work Life
order: 3
---
I have been involved in technology and the impact of technology on business throughout my career. I’ve been passionate about technology since a kid in Vietnam where I remember discovering that some benevolent computer vendor had installed a ninja game on our first computer and I happened to open it after traversing all the directory and opening random files on the computer in DOS. It blew my mind. 

I learned to network so that I could play LAN games with my brother (GTA2, Counterstrike and the like). I got into building our own computers and my brother pulled me down the rabbit hole of overclocking them. I decided that getting a [whitebook laptop](https://computer.howstuffworks.com/laptop5.htm) would be a good idea and enjoyed ripping it apart to put in my own CPU / RAM etc. My brother and I had a side hustle once upon a time buying cheaper computer parts in the US, Singapore or other places we traveled to and selling them in India where there were much higher taxes. We knew a number of the IT guys at [Richie street](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ritchie_Street) in Chennai on a first name basis. I remember having strong opinions about how the iPhone wasn't going to make it and instead opted for the [HTC TyTN](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HTC_TyTN_II) and decided that spending hours of my life modding the ROM would be a good spend of time. I eventually accepted I was wrong and got an iPhone a year or two later when I couldn't deal with the internet through the travesty that was Windows Mobile 6. I’ve since worked with SQL, VBA (never again), Drupal (never again), Wordpress, PHP, Ruby & Rails, Vue, some React and Elixir as well as all the other fun in between things you do to build technology (ie CI, building server environments etc).

I also love teaching & facilitating - I taught English in El Salvador, Kyrgyzstan, and China. It was rewarding and there’s something about helping people being able to learn a new skill and apply it I greatly enjoy. I still try and teach where I can and a lot of my recent career has involved running large workshops, facilitation and doing adult learning activities (both online and offline). I enjoy helping people come to a consensus, find new ideas or collaborate in a structured effective way to make hard decisions.

I’ve enjoyed building technology solutions to help people achieve their goals. There’s something about helping people turn ideas into tangible pixels on a screen that do things that satisfied both parts of my technology background and the facilitation and strategy passions. I’ve been generally technology agnostic and focused on learning languages and tools that meet the needs of what people are trying to achieve vs. over-engineering things for the sake of building shiny objects or dogmatically sticking to a given language because its what I know. 

The last few years I’ve enjoyed basically the next step in the iteration of building technology tools and discrete systems and found the next piece of figuring out how you build a business around that technology equally rewarding. It became about how to take an idea, turn it into something, and then keep pushing the boundaries to meet customers’ needs. But fundamentally it’s as an exercise of building, learning, and teaching people why what you are doing is useful. 

Much of my career has been in International Development - partially I guess because it was part of my DNA (even before my parents, my family lived abroad for close to 200 years in India and Iran). But its also an industry, for its many flaws, that I believe is at least aspiring to do good in the world and I’ve enjoyed trying to be part of that and contributing to the upliftment of others. Through Tela, I’ve recently done more in Healthcare and its another space I’m passionate about contributing to.

My education focused on the non-tech things (Business and Organization Development), I think I realized I’d be doing the tech things anyway because I loved it but I found so much of what made the technology succeed or fail depended much more on the people around it than the merit of the code base itself. So I focused on studying how to get people to work together, adopt ideas, manage change and all the things that while not core to what I would tinker with in my free time, was equally important in my mind.

In sum, I love doing a bit of everything - from facilitating large workshops, digging back into the code, selling, managing a backlog, and figuring out to navigate the ups and downs that come with trying to take businesses from an idea to a reality. I'm happiest when I can dig deep into a problem with a team that I can help foster the kind of “its about the process, not output” ethos that I’ve come to find important in life.
